[MUSIC PLAYING]
>>Welcome back to Break
Through Emotional Eating.
I'm Gay Hendricks.
In this episode, we're going
to discuss the Yes Breath.
Deep, easy breathing
can make you feel
vibrant throughout your day.
The Yes Breath
technique, which we
taught to thousands of our
students over the years,
is the very best thing
that I can do the quickest
to help you be in touch
with your emotions,
and to help you be in touch with
and to express yourself more
authentically in the world.
Some of the process involves
doing the Yes Breath
at the same time you're
thinking a new affirmation
or considering a new idea.
The very first secret
I want to show you
about healthy breathing
is to let your spine move
as you breathe.
Let your belly relax and
expand with the in-breath.
Most people hold
their back too stiff
and their belly muscles too
tight when they breathe.
That's a stressful habit
that keeps the diaphragm
from moving through the
full range of motion.
What that does is
force the breath up
into the chest, where you can
never really get a full breath.
So here's the
quick fix for that.
Here's how the Yes Breath looks.
Begin with movement first.
Gently and slowly arch and
flatten the small of your back,
taking six or seven seconds to
arch and six or seven seconds
to flatten.
This causes you to rock forward
and back on your sit bones.
So rock your pelvis all the way
to the front and all the way
to the back, but take
six or seven seconds
to do this, very peacefully.
As you arch the
small of your back,
tilt your chin up slightly
toward the ceiling.
And as you flatten the
small of your back,
tilt your chin down
toward the floor.
So now you're
beginning to see why
it's called the "Yes Breath".
It's because as you
do it, your body
is making a kind of a whole
body yes, as in nodding.
Now, let's add your
breathing to the movement.
Breathe all the way
into your relaxed body
as you arch the small of
your back and look up.
And breathe all
the way out as you
flatten the small of
your back and look down.
These don't have to
be big movements.
I'm exaggerating them
so you can see them.
Now, here's what I'd like you
to do with your breathing.
If you do the Yes
Breath at a slow pace,
like six or seven seconds in
and six or seven seconds out,
you quiet the stress
response in your body.
At the same time, you turn
on a feeling of harmony,
ease, and vibrancy.
Most people begin to notice the
effects after about 30 seconds
or so.
The slower and gentler
you can do the breathing,
the quicker your body will start
to feel that peaceful feeling.
So let's take a
moment to practice it.
Right where you are,
put your left hand
over your heart
and your right hand
down around your belly button.
Now, what I want
you to do, I want
you to breathe so that
your hands go further apart
and then come back
together as you breathe.
So let your hands swell
apart on the in-breath
and then come closer
together on the out-breath.
At the same time you're flexing
your spine with the breathing,
you're arching the
small of your back
as you breathe in with
the relaxed belly.
And then, you're flattening
the small of your back
as you breathe
out and look down.
Now, let's add commitment.
It's important to learn
how to breathe correctly,
because then you can integrate
your body's intelligence
with your mind's intelligence.
Specifically, you can use it
to make your commitments more
powerful and lasting.
Begin using your Yes Breath
right now-- easy, slow,
six- to seven-second breaths
in and easy, slow, six to seven
breaths out, letting
your spine move with it.
You can even keep
your hands there
if you'd like to remind
yourself how to do it.
Let your hands go apart
when you breathe in
and come closer together
when you breathe out.
As you do that peaceful
breath, relaxing
with the flow of
easy breath, I'd
like you to say the following
sentences in your mind.
Say them about every 15 seconds.
So get your breathing
going and now flow
this thought through
your mind very gently,
whispering it to yourself--
"I commit to discovering a new
and loving relationship
with my body.
I commit to discovering a
new and loving relationship
with my body."
Say it, and then
take two easy breaths
to let it settle into your body.
Feel free to return to this
part of the program over
and over again, as
many times as you need,
until you can really feel
that easy breath while you're
saying the commitment.
Let's begin right now to
develop that new and loving
relationship with your
body that you've just
committed to enjoying.
Take this moment right
now to love yourself
for all the attempts
you've made in the past.
Love yourself for
all the attempts
you ever made so far to
deal with your weight.
Love, honor, and appreciate
yourself for all that effort,
even if it hasn't paid
off, even if there's
been tremendous pain and
suffering associated with it.
I want you to at least
honor and salute yourself
for having done that.
It signifies that
deep down in you, you
have a deep desire to
bring your spirit out
so everyone can see it.
Wherever you are,
take this moment
to love yourself for all
the attempts you've ever
made in the past.
Now, let's go back to enjoying
your deep, easy breathing.
It quiets down your body's
stress chemistry quicker
than almost anything else.
And to me, learning
is better when
you're feeling good
and having a good time.
I'm not one of those who
believe that learning has
to be accompanied by suffering.
So let's do our
best in this program
to always stay in your
zone of ease and comfort.
Breathing is one of the
best ways to do that.
As you breathe, I'd like you to
ask yourself a really important
question now.
Consider all the
energy you've put
into worrying about your
weight, now and in the past.
If you could re-channel that
energy into creative projects,
what are the top three projects
you would choose to produce?
In other words, if you could
stop worrying about your weight
and re-channel that energy
into creative projects
that you'd like to
accomplish, what
are the three that are
most important to you?
Focus on those
questions for a moment.
One of the most important
things I discovered
is that our extra weight is
stored creative potential.
The energy you put into
worrying about your weight
can be redirected
so that it's fuel
for your creative projects.
With that in mind,
ask yourself, what
are the creative dreams
that live within me?
If I had access to
all the energy I now
consume worrying
about my weight,
what would I most love
to focus that energy on?
I invite you to write in a
journal after our sessions
and do some work getting
clear on your top three
creative endeavors.
In our next episode,
I'm going to talk to you
about emotional awareness.
[MUSIC PLAYING]